Create 'work in the open' principle (#110)
HO-CTO/engineering-guidance-and-standards: docs/principles/work-in-the-open.md

---
layout: sub-navigation
order: 1
title: Work in the open
date: git Last Modified
tags:
- Ways of working
- Source management
---

> {% import "_includes/macros/tags.njk" as pageTag %}

Reviewer: Update macro import based on latest location of template.
```suggestion
{% import "macros/tags.njk" as pageTag %}
```

---

## Rationale

The [Home Office DDaT Strategy](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/home-office-digital-data-and-technology-strategy-2024/home-office-digital-data-and-technology-strategy-2024) advocates working and developing in the open to realise the benefits of shared technology products and to deliver effectively at scale. This is aligned to [point 3 of the Technology Code of Practice](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/be-open-and-use-open-source) and [requirement 12 of the Service Standard](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/service-standard/point-12-make-new-source-code-open).

Working in the open helps to build institutional memory, shared knowledge and best practice. Sharing code in the open makes it easier for teams to discover patterns and components. This in turn enables reuse and the development of shared technology products, and reduces duplication of effort.

---

## Applications and Implications

- Make your documentation, artefacts and code easily discoverable for other teams

> - Follow central government and Home Office guidance on open and closed source code

Reviewer 2: This needs a link, if we have one yet.

Author: I can link to central gov guidance now, but will need to get the Home Office guidance online in SEGAS before can link to that

Reviewer 2: need a way of marking a TODO -- there's a link but not yet public/available sort of thing

> - Build more secure applications by reducing reliance on 'security by obscurity'

Reviewer 2: link to eg.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_through_obscurity

> - Encourage review of work by wider communities, and welcome their feedback and contribution

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Encourage reviews of work by wider communities, and welcome feedback and contributions
```
